Here we're looking at the documentation for Prometheus,
where they have a nice list of exporters that you can choose from.
I'll highlight a few,
but as you can see there are quite a few in this list.
There's a link to this page below the video if
you'd like to explore more on these exporters.
Take a look here there's MongoDB exporter.
This exporter periodically scrapes
MongoDB server stats and makes them available to Prometheus.
The same can be done for almost any flavor of database out there.
Let's take a look at some of the hardware related exporters.
One that I use often is the node system metric exporter,
or just the node exporter.
It provides basic operating system metrics like CPU, disk, memory usage.
It doesn't have anything to do with NodeJS though.
There's also the Nginx VTS exporter that I use quite frequently.
This exporter provides metrics on connections, server zones,
and upstream requests from the perspective of your load balancer or your Nginx instance.
There's also the Blackbox exporter.
This exporter enables probing of HTTP or HTTPS endpoints.
This one is really useful if you want to watch website uptime, for example.
Monitoring data isn't just about systems, logs,
and hardware metrics, it can be drawn
from the applications we use to develop our software.
Two of those systems are GitHub and Jira.
The GitHub exporter provides metrics on repository commits,
pull requests, and issues.
The Jira exporter provides metrics on Jira issues and projects.
Wouldn't it be interesting if you could somehow correlate
Jira issues and git commits with web server load,
and begin predicting incidents before they even transpire.
Crazy stuff at your fingertips.